All right.
Well, because we jumped into the next series, we don't have a bumper video tonight.
We don't thank you so much.
We don't have any of that exciting stuff.
So we're going to just jump right in to the Word of God.
Is that all right?
Let me try that again.
We're just going to jump right in to the Word of God tonight.
Is that all right?
Hey, there you go.
Hey, we're in a series.
We just wrapped up a series that we've called built to last.
We've taken the time over the last several weeks to discover what it means to truly
dig in to the Word of God to build on a solid foundation.
If you're like me, you've been a part of things and been places where they didn't really build something to last.
It was kind of a wiggle wobble type of fixture that barely stood on its own.
I remember one time I was at staff at another church and one of the workers in the church had her husband come in and he put together a little coffee stand
and after he got done and left, we started looking at that and realized that he put the back of the fixture on backwards or upside down, and rather than taking the screws out and fixing it, he just broke the wood in the bottom because he figured that would work.
And I think sometimes that's what we do as believers.
Rather than saying, Lord, I want the best that you have
Lord, I give you all that I am.
We settle for things that have been put in upside down or even broken on the edge.
And God says, I have something greater for you.
See, this year we're talking about this idea of building his church, not so we can have a name for ourselves, not to promote anybody in this building, or even the church as a whole, but to build his church,
where Jesus said the gates of hell will not even be able to shake it.
It will not prevail against it.
Now, one way that we can accomplish that task is by being a people of prayer.
We were supposed to, as I stated a moment ago, begin this series the first Sunday of February, but as I began to process through this last night and even this morning, I realized how fitting it is that we're kicking off this series
Now, because Sunday wraps up our 21 days of prayer and fasting.
So tonight, we're going to kick off a series that we're simply calling a house of prayer.
It flows directly out of our Build His Church theme for the year because if God is building His church, then prayer must be the foundation that we build upon.
Right?
You see, it's not enough for us to say, you know what?
We're gonna build his church and we're gonna build it on an hour and 15 minutes a week.
Or sometimes an hour and 15 minutes a month or every two weeks or periodically giving God time.
But I believe that God has called us, you and me, and those are online and those in other locations.
God's called every one of us to build his church, but to allow it to be built
on prayer.
I want to take some time to help us over the next several weeks to discover that prayer is not just for the select, well-educated, knowledgeable, not even just for a small group, but prayer is a key that has been given to all that have a desire, all that have a heart to draw closer and closer and closer to God.
It would be easy right now in this room to say amen to that.
Thank you.
But truth be told, not always do we believe that.
There are moments that we look at our lives and we begin to put doubts in our prayers.
We begin to put doubt in ourselves.
We look at our situations and we're not really sure that prayer applies to us.
So we ask this very honest
question, do I really have to pray?
Have you ever asked yourself that question?
Do I really have to pray?
Yes, it's essential.
It's not just optional, but it's a vital part of our walk with Christ.
The truth be told, many of us don't really struggle with believing that prayer is effective.
We struggle with believing that prayer actually matters or that it applies to us.
We ask questions like this, if God already knows everything, then why do I need to pray?
We may even ask this, if God is sovereign, if he is all known, if he holds everything together, why should I even try?
I don't feel qualified, so what's the need?
I don't feel spiritual, so why do I even give it an effort?
I'm gonna be honest with you, these are fair questions.
But I also believe that their distractions, that the enemy uses
in his arsenal to derail us from utilizing the most powerful weapon, offensive and offensive weapon that God has given us.
The Bible says that the prayers of a righteous person are powerful and effective.
Would you agree with that?
Again, here's the problem.
Many of us in the room, many of us watching online tonight,
We struggle because we don't see ourselves as righteous.
We see ourselves as faulty at best.
Why?
Because we know the real us.
We know the us when nobody else is looking.
We know the us that thinks up here.
We know the us that responds in ways that we really shouldn't respond.
We know the us that does things that we really shouldn't do.
So we look at scriptures like,
The prayers of a righteous person are powerful and effective, and we think my prayers have no power whatsoever.
Why try?
Why should I even give it any effort?
Well, here's what I wanted us to understand.
When we're talking about the prayers of a righteous person, and we're gonna talk really in depth about this in a couple of weeks, what we have to understand is we're not righteous because of us.
Come on.
I'm not made righteous because I'm a good person.
You're not made righteous because you volunteer for this organization or that organization.
You're not made righteous because you choose to say the right things at the right time.
The Bible says that our righteousness is like filthy rags.
I don't have the time, the night to explain what that really, really means, but if you dig in as nasty.
Come on, those of you that know, you know.
Have you ever tried to clean something up with a dirty rag?
I shared it a couple Sundays ago.
I was doing some caulking.
in my living room.
And I got some brown caulk because I wanted to kind of fix some areas and hide some areas.
Come on, anybody ever try to hide something?
Yeah.
So I was trying to hide some areas of some work that I've done.
And so I was trying to put that brown caulk in there so I could just kind of hide that in there.
And I got a little bit too much over here.
So I grabbed my rag and I started to wipe it.
The problem is it got more over here on the rag.
So when I began to wipe this side, more caulk got over there.
And then I began to wipe that.
And now I just smeared over here.
And before you know,
and I had to repaint.
Why?
Because I was trying to clean something with a dirty rag.
Sometimes in our walk with Christ, we try to clean up a mess with our filthiness.
We try to make things right through our mistakes.
And God says, I've given you a way out.
Our righteousness is not in us, but in Christ.
The Bible says that if we confess our sins that God's faithful and just to forgive us of all of our sins and cleanse us from what?
All unrighteousness.
Again, not because of us, not because we have the magic word, not because we do the right thing,
but because of the price that Jesus paid on the cross of Calvary, and we look at this scripture that says, the prayers of a righteous person are powerful and effective, and then we remember the moment where Jesus looked at the disciples and says, when I go away, you're gonna do even greater things than I do, and we realize that the two of those go together, and because of what Jesus has done, because of the price that he paid, because of his willingness to sacrifice it all, we have an opportunity to step
We've been to this place of righteousness, not because of us, but because of Him.
When we begin to lean in to Jesus, oh, there's something about that name.
When we begin to simply reach out, there's a woman in the Bible referred to as the woman with the issue of blood, how would you like for that to be your reference for all time?
She has no name, it's not like Sally walked into the crowd.
No, no, no, the woman with the issue of blood, but this woman was so desperate to get into the presence of Jesus, that she pressed in through the crowd, not even getting Jesus' attention.
She just thought, if I can just touch the hem of his robe, if I can just touch his clothing, I believe that the bleeding in my body will stop.
I want you to know,
that when she touched his clothing, she was instantly healed.
There's something that happens when you step into the presence of Jesus.
When you allow him to change the chaotic atmosphere that you're hanging out in, come on, some of y'all know, when you step out just for a moment to say, Lord, I wanna,
bypass this to step into where you are because when the atmosphere changes, when the presence of the Lord is there, the Bible says there is freedom, some translations say there's liberty.
Some of you need freedom tonight.
At the conclusion of the service, we're gonna end a little bit different tonight because nobody has lunch to run off to.
Come on, nobody has, we don't have a second service that we have to get ready for.
But we're gonna end this service tonight by having a moment of prayer.
I'm gonna invite people to come to the front and we're gonna, because I believe in this room tonight, God brought you here for such a time as this.
I don't think you're here by happenstance.
I don't think you're here by mistake.
I don't think you just kind of tripped in to be in here tonight.
There's a reason why God prompted you to come out on a Friday night
on a cold, cold winter's evening.
I believe that tonight God wants to work in some hearts and some lives.
That God wants to show up in this place.
Okay, so our text, here we go.
Our text tonight is found in Hebrews chapter 10 verse 19.
This is what we're gonna use as our launching pad.
We're gonna kind of reference back to it throughout the message this evening.
It simply says this, and so dear brothers and sisters,
We can boldly enter heaven's most holy place because of the blood of Jesus.
Come on, we can boldly enter in heaven's most holy place because of the blood of Jesus.
I don't know about you, but for me, that's a game changer.
Prayer doesn't begin
by some obligation I have to.
He doesn't say you must, you have to, but he says you can enter in.
Prayer begins because we have access.
We have access not because of who I am.
It's not based on me or my merit or my perfection or my performance or even my biblical knowledge.
The access is given through Jesus Christ.
He holds the key in his hand and he offers it to you and to me.
I love how the message paraphrase reads this.
He says, so friends, we can now without hesitation walk right up to God.
into the holy place.
Jesus has cleared the way by the blood of his sacrifice, acting as our priest before God.
The curtain into God's presence is his body.
So let's do it.
Full of belief, confident that we're presentable inside and out.
Let's keep a firm grip on the promise that keep us going.
He always keeps his word.
I wanna challenge you tonight.
I wanna challenge you to approach prayer with an open heart.
Some of you, maybe you've never really had a moment with prayer.
Maybe you've had a prayer of desperation.
God help!
Right?
But you've never just had that conversation.
Perhaps you think to yourself, well, I don't know how to pray.
I don't know the right words to say.
I don't have all the fancy lingo and fancy terminology.
I'm not sure that I would even pray correctly.
Well, here's a deal.
There's not a right way or a wrong way.
We're just called to step boldly into the presence of God.
Just to have a conversation
with him.
God's not looking for some big fancy lingo.
You don't have to, okay, this is going to be a big relief.
You don't have to pray in King James.
Some of you are like, I don't even know what that is.
Praise God.
You know, I've heard people that think, well, I've got to pray in Shakespearean mode, oh, thou fatherist in heavenest
You are great, great, and mightiest of all time.
They bestowest upon me the blessings.
What does that even mean?
What God wants to hear is your heart.
Lord, here I am.
Lord, this day stunk.
Lord, I'm so frustrated right now.
Lord, I'm scared to death.
Or maybe God, I'm so grateful today was fantastic.
What a day you've given me.
Just those moments of being real and honest and transparent with him.
That's what he desires.
There's not some big fancy lingo that we've got to establish and bring together.
But come to him, step into his presence, full of belief, confidence,
You're presentable inside and out, again, not because of who you are, but you're forgiven because of Christ and what he's did, holding onto the promises that he's already given understanding and trusting that he is true to his word.
Did you know the Bible says that all of God's promises?
Come on, all of God's promises are yes and amen.
That word amen means so be it.
All of God's promises.
What are promises?
Well, one is, He said, I'll never leave you, I'll never forsake you.
By His stripes we are healed.
That if we confess our sins, He'll forgive us and make us brand new.
So many promises of God that you and I get to hold on to as His followers.
Yet too many times what do we do?
We push those back and we think to ourselves, it's not for me.
I'm not worthy of that.
Listen carefully.
None of us are.
That's why it's grace.
Come on.
That's good.
That's why it's grace.
unmerited favor, not something that we've earned, not something that we deserve, but freely given by God a relationship for you and for me.
Jesus holds in his hand the access that we have to the Father.
All right, let's go.
Four truths that I want to give you tonight.
We've got the digital outlines.
We've got the paper outlines.
Take good notes.
Number one is this.
Prayer is not an obligation.
It's an invitation.
Sometimes we feel guilty because we haven't spent time in prayer.
Can I just tell you that guilt is not from God, that guilt is self-inflicted?
Come on.
That's good.
It's self-inflicted.
We have placed that pressure on ourselves.
But God says, the key is here.
The door is open.
I encourage you to come in.
In fact, our text says, and so do your brothers and sisters, we can boldly enter.
It does not say we must.
It doesn't say we earn entry.
It doesn't even say we hope we're allowed.
Have you ever gone to an amusement park
You got there and the lines were super, super long and you thought, I hope I get on the ride.
Or maybe you get to a restaurant and the line is out the door.
People waiting to be seated and you think, I hope that I get a seat tonight.
We've all been there.
The problem is we equate that to our conversations with God and we think, I hope I'm allowed in.
I hope I'm good enough.
I hope I've earned my way.
But the Bible doesn't say anything about earning our way or being good enough.
It's as we can enter in.
Here's what we've got to understand.
Prayer is not about fulfilling a duty.
It's not even about an obligation.
It's about responding to an invitation.
Oh, come on.
Jesus offers a direct
access to God.
Let me give you a little clarity.
Let me help you understand this.
In the Old Testament, the Bible is split into two sections, the Old Testament, 39 books, New Testament, 27 books, and the dividing line is the life of Jesus Christ, okay?
So you get to the end of the Old Testament, Jesus arrives on the scene and He
He lives his life, he does his miracles, he gives him sacrifice on the cross, he rises from the grave, he ascends the heaven, and then we continue on the rest of the New Testament.
But something different is going on in the Old Testament with the Old Covenant, we would call it, and the New Testament or the New Covenant.
Under the Old Covenant, before Jesus' death and resurrection, only a high priest could enter the most holy place.
Only once a year,
Only with blood, there was a number of stipulations that they had to hold on to.
The presence of God was restricted to only a few.
Oh, this is good.
Because of Jesus, because of his sacrifice, because of the price that he paid, because he rose from the grave, the curtain, the veil, into the most holy place was torn.
The gospels tell us all about this.
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
But because of Jesus, access has been opened.
God moved from behind the curtain to right in front of you and me.
God said, here I am.
Step into my presence.
In fact, the Bible says that God inhabits the praises of His people.
He loves to spend time with you and with me.
So when we ask, do I have to pray?
A better question is probably this.
Why wouldn't I when the door has already been opened?
Rather than saying, do I pass or do I?
If I wanna be a follower of Christ, if I have to follow Christ, if I've made this decision to follow Christ, do I have to pray?
Rather than saying that, ask yourself, why wouldn't I?
Why wouldn't I have a conversation?
Can I be honest with you?
When my wife and I first started dating, if we hadn't had conversations, now truth be told, a lot of our conversations were over email.
That's romantic, isn't it?
Yeah.
We didn't have cell phones back then.
Now it costs money to call on the telephone.
You had to call after seven o'clock if you were gonna call, you know what I'm saying?
Remember those days?
Come on.
But if I didn't take the time to have conversation with my wife, what form of relationship would we have?
it wouldn't work very well, would it?
Yet we come into a place, we come into church, we have a moment with God, we come to an altar, we give our life to Him, we ask Him to come in and forgive us, and we think, well that's the end of the road, I've accomplished a task, I've done what I need to do, I have fire insurance, I'm going to heaven.
And yeah, that's the on-ramp, that's the response of giving our lives to Christ,
From that, we are to work out that salvation.
We're gonna do what we need to do to grow in our faith.
Now, when we work out our salvation, that doesn't mean that I've gotta earn my way.
The price has already been paid.
Jesus already made a way.
But God says, why not come into my presence?
Why not spend time talking with me?
He wants to hear your heart.
Does he already know?
Yes, but he wants to hear it from you.
How many of you parents
ever had a conversation with your kids, and you already knew what the answer was, but you wanted to hear it from them.
Come on, it doesn't matter how old the kids are.
I've got young mamas in the room going, come on, preach a pastor, and I've got those of you that are older than me going, I remember those days where you already knew the answer.
You knew what they were gonna say, but you wanted them to get to that place of admitting it, of understanding it, of recognizing it.
You wanted them to really grasp
The sincerity, the seriousness of that moment.
I think that's kind of how God is.
He already knows what we're going through.
He already knows how your day was before you even tell him.
You don't have to fake your way.
You don't have to like come in, gritting your teeth, going, it's been a terrible day.
God, I praise you, Hallelujah.
He just wants to know your heart.
And here's the great thing about this conversation with God, the more that we get to know Him, or the more that He gets to know us, the more time we spend with Him, the more that we get to know Him, the deeper that relationship gets, the more time that we want to spend with Him.
So that brings us to our second truth.
Prayer is personal, not secondhand.
One of the greatest dangers in the modern church is what Pastor Mark Batterson in the book Whisper calls secondhand spirituality.
Look what he says.
At some point, most people settle for secondhand spirituality.
But listening to those who listen to God is no substitute for seeking him yourself.
Come on, let me say that again.
Listening to those who listen to God is no substitute for seeking Him yourself.
If you become reliant upon others for inspiration, that's called spiritual codependency.
God wants to speak to you.
Yes, you.
I wonder tonight, have you ever become guilty of living your journey with God through spiritual
codependency or even secondhand spirituality.
We think, well, I'm just gonna spend time listening to that podcast.
I'm gonna spend time listening to that sermon by that pastor online.
There's so much available today, things streaming online, podcast reels, all sorts of things.
I don't misunderstand me.
Those are incredible things that if you look at my phone tonight, I've got several pastors in podcasts
that I follow, but that cannot take the place of our one-on-one time with God.
Let me throw this little thing out there also.
Be careful who you listen to.
Just because they have a microphone and a camera doesn't mean they're spiritually accurate.
Come on.
How do you know?
How do you know if they're spiritually accurate?
You've got to get to know God's word.
And if you really don't understand quite yet, talk to somebody that's one step further than you in their spiritual journey.
Ask them, is this guy that I'm listening to?
Are they legit?
Let me move on.
I could give you some examples tonight, but I won't do that.
You're welcome.
All right.
It doesn't mean the invitation for conversation is null and void.
have the opportunity, we have the invitation, we can come boldly.
It's important to note that spiritually, you cannot live off borrowed encounters or even survive off somebody's personal time with God.
Prayer is simply where your faith becomes personal.
Did you hear me tonight?
Prayer is where your faith
becomes personal.
Romans 12, verse 12 says, rejoice in our confident home hope, be patient in trouble, and keep on praying.
One translation says, be faithful in your prayer.
It doesn't say be impressive.
It doesn't say be fancy or even eloquent.
It says be consistent, be faithful.
That's all that God desires from us.
So how do we know that prayer really should be personal and that prayer is really for every one of us?
Well, let me give you a couple opportunities to grab ahold of this.
First off, 1 Corinthians chapter six says this.
Don't you realize that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit?
Now we're gonna do a little biblical math.
You guys ready for a good equation tonight?
So our bodies are the temple, we could say house of the Holy Spirit.
And then in Matthew, when Jesus is turning over the tables in the temple, it says, Jesus said to them, it is written, my house shall be called a house of prayer.
Now I'm gonna do a little equation here.
If we are the temple of the Holy Spirit, we are the house, the residence thereof,
And Jesus said, my house shall be called a house of prayer.
You pull those together and guess what?
Should we not be a people or a house of prayer?
Come on, here he doesn't say church.
He's talking about weird to be a house of prayer.
And yeah, I understand that Jesus was talking actually about the temple in that moment.
They had turned it into money changers and they were cheating in their sales and all sorts of things going on.
But I believe that as we look at this, we can apply it to ourselves tonight and realize that Jesus is calling us to a place of complete surrender and prayer to him.
Truth number three is this, prayer requires intentional listening.
Now, here's the part that many of us struggle in when it comes to prayer.
If he's in chapter six, verse 18 says, pray in the spirit at all times and on every occasion.
First Thessalonians says, never stop praying.
And we look at these verses and many of us would respond to that by going, how is that possible?
I don't know how I can spend my entire day in prayer.
I don't know how I can pray on every occasion.
I've got a job.
I've got a family.
I've got to eat.
I've got all of these things going on.
I'm just not sure that I can pray in the Spirit at all times.
I don't know that I can pray without ceasing.
I'm not sure how this is possible.
Here's what I want to grab a hold of.
Prayer is as much listening
as it is speaking.
There's a reason why the Bible says, be still and know that I am God.
Because if we're being honest, most of us aren't good listeners.
Don't look at your husband.
Don't do that.
Yeah, many of us, in fact, earlier today, I had gone down, we're in a tri-level house and I'd gone down to the very lower level of our house and I was taking care of some things down there, putting some things in the freezer and feeding the cats and all that.
And apparently my wife was hollering for me and she didn't care enough to come down and find out I was okay.
I could have had a stroke and died right there, but that's okay.
I get back upstairs and she goes, did you hear me?
And I said, no, she said, I even said selective hearing,
And I'm like, I didn't hear that either.
Sometimes we have selective hearing even in our conversation with God because we want to hear what we like.
We don't necessarily want to hear what we need.
The Bible says, my God will supply all of your needs.
God's going to give you what you need.
Maybe that's a word.
Maybe that's an encouragement.
Maybe that's a correctness or a correction.
We've got to be willing to say, Lord, I listen to you.
God, I open my ears.
I think there's a reason why we have two ears and one mouth.
Perhaps we are supposed to listen twice as much as we speak.
Could be?
Well, Jesus said it this way.
My sheep listen to my voice.
I know them and they follow me.
How do you get to know the voice of God?
How do you get to really know Him?
You spend time listening to Him.
Can I just tell you if my wife calls me on my phone, even if my caller, even if she had a caller ID blocked and I said no ID when she called in, I would know it was my wife.
Why?
Because I know her voice.
I've spent time with her.
God's saying, if you'll just spend time with me, you'll get to know me.
You'll know my voice.
It's going to require that you slow down.
It's going to require that you're still.
It's going to require that you simply listen.
Again, this is intentional listening.
The word intentional literally means done on purpose or deliberately.
Again, Mark Batterson.
In the book, he says this, listening doesn't happen by default.
It happens by design.
You have to ruthlessly eliminate distractions and you have to turn some voices down or tune them out altogether.
Some of us are letting the wrong voice speak the loudest in our ears.
There are things that are taking us down the wrong path.
There are things that are causing us to doubt our relationship or even calling with God.
There's things causing us to doubt the love of God.
There's things causing us to doubt the direction that God is taking us on.
And God said, if you'll silence that noise, if you'll deliberately turn it off and listen to Him.
It's making room or even creating space
for God to step into your everyday ordinary situations.
That's what we talk about in Romans chapter 12 when we're reminded to offer our ordinary everyday life to give it to God.
That's what he desires for us.
That we come to the place and we say, Lord, help me to be a better listener to you.
There's a song that we sing and I love.
And it says, the more I seek him, the more I find him.
The more I find him, the more I love him.
I want you to know tonight that the more time you spend in God's presence, the more time you're going to want to spend with Him.
But sometimes we fail to be silent because, well, not because of the busyness or not even because of all the noise.
Sometimes we've created this self-created fear.
Again, Mark says this.
One reason we turn a deaf ear to God is because we're afraid of what He's going to say.
But that's because we don't know his heart toward us.
Would you offer yourself to God?
Would you get to know him?
Would you know his hearts?
See if we step back into our text, we're reminded that we can step boldly, we're given the opportunity, we're handed in the keys, we can step boldly into his presence.
It doesn't say step in fearfully or step in out of concern, but boldly step into the presence of God.
Why?
Because he's good.
Because he's faithful.
Because his grace is sufficient.
Because his mercies are new.
every morning.
I want to challenge you, silence the noise and give time to God.
Finally, number four tonight, silence is not the absence of God, but an invitation for engagements.
Maybe you've made this statement before.
I've tried praying before, I've tried having a conversation with God before, and He didn't say anything.
If you want to find out a moment where somebody dealt with that, read the book of Job.
Or if you're new to the Bible, maybe you call it job.
But it's Job.
It's Job.
There were moments of silence when he did not hear the response of God.
But what I want you to know is this, silence in your prayer with God is not God ignoring you.
It's not even a wall of resistance, but it's an opportunity for spiritual engagement.
Silence is anything but passive waiting.
It's proactive listening.
And if we're being completely transparent, listening is a lot harder than talking.
Have you ever met that person?
Do you think, do they ever shut up?
Some of you pointed at people.
Yeah.
There are people that every one of us know that we're like,
Do they ever run out of words?
And I think sometimes in our conversation with God, God says, would you just, just stop.
Yes, people up front are going, shut up.
Hopefully you're not talking to me.
Okay, whew, shut up, pastor.
No, sometimes we just need to be still.
If I was to write a translation of the Bible, I'm not going to.
But if I was, I would translate that scripture, be still a no, sit down and shut up.
That's what I would say.
Because I think that's where we falter a lot of times.
We don't take the time just to listen to God.
We're terrible listeners.
Why?
Well, two reasons.
One, number one, because we're consumed by too much noise.
How often do we allow the wrong voices to be the loudest that we hear?
Henry Noah and once said it this way, every time you listen with great attentiveness to the voice that calls you the beloved, you will discover within yourself a desire to hear that voice longer and more deeply.
The more time we spend with God, the more that we will want to hear his voice, the more that we get to know him, the more that we understand his heart, the more that we understand his heart, the more we want to become in alignment with him.
Number two.
were terrible at sitting still.
I did a quick search, and back in the 80s and 90s, the best time on planet Earth, I'm told that our attention span was measured in minutes.
Sometimes, if the situation was just right, our attention span could span upwards of 10 minutes.
But today, for adults, our attention spans are eight to 12 seconds.
for teenagers, it's seven to eight.
I'm glad it's not six to seven.
It's seven to eight.
We've somehow gotten to the place where our attention span is so short that we really don't give God the time that he needs because we're consumed with so many things.
Have you ever been guilty of, you've started praying and 10 seconds into your prayer, suddenly you hear,
and your phone goes off or maybe somebody calls or you suddenly think of that thing that you forgot about when you're talking to your wife earlier that morning and you suddenly remembered what it was or that person's name finally came to the forefront of your mind and you thought of it in that moment why because we chase squirrels but we've got to come to the place that we learn
to spend time with God.
Is it natural?
No.
It's not natural to spend that much time focused in on one thing, but the more we get to know Him, the deeper and the greater that relationship truly is.
So again, the question that we've got to ask, do I have to pray?
I heard somebody whisper, yes, well, truthfully the answer is no.
You don't have to pray to earn God's favor, but you get to pray because His grace, His love and His mercy have already been given to you.
You don't have to pray because you gave your life to Jesus, but you get to pray because He first loved you.
Hebrews chapter four says, so let us come boldly
to the throne room of our gracious God.
Because of Jesus, we have direct access to the Father.
God is building His church.
He desires to build His church through that of a house of prayer.
He desires to use us.
So the question is not, do I have to pray or is prayer required?
The question is, will you take God up on His invitation?
That's the question.
to ask yourself.
Yeah, prayer is one of our core values.
We value prayer and not just mere chatter.
We don't just want to talk about the issue.
We don't want to just talk about the blessing.
We want to lay to the feet of God.
And I wonder will you allow that core value?
Will you allow it to become part of the DNA of your life?
And will you say, God, I accept your invitation this week.
I'm gonna encourage you.
Set a new habit in your life.
Set time aside daily.
I'm not saying start with an hour and a half.
I'm not saying start even with 30 minutes.
Maybe you need to start with eight to 12 seconds.
Or better yet, surpass that, go to 15.
Crazy.
But just set some time aside.
Not for eloquent speech, not for fancy terminology, but just to have a conversation with God, I say, Lord, speak to my life.
And as you begin to pray, maybe you wanna even take some time, pray for about half the time and the rest, say, Lord, for the next three minutes.
God, I just wanna listen to you.
And I'm gonna be honest, that first time you do that, that three minutes is gonna feel like an eternity.
It will.
But the more you seek Him, the more you find Him.
The more you find Him, the more you love Him.
Here's what I wanna do tonight.
We're gonna wrap up the service in just a second, but I told you on the front side that we're gonna put into practice a little bit of what we just talked about.
I wanna encourage you in just a few moments just to leave your seat.
Maybe you need prayer tonight.
Maybe you need healing.
Maybe you need provision.
Maybe you need some restoration in your family.
Maybe whatever the need may be, you need God to show up.
We wanna pray with you.
But maybe you're here and you say, Pastor, I just wanna spend some time with God.
We have altars at either side of this building.
Maybe you just want you and you alone, you with God, you wanna find a place and you wanna spend time with Him.
Just a few minutes, we're gonna open these altars.
Before we do that, will you join me in prayer?
God, right now.
Lord, speaking to our hearts.
Lord, these next few moments perhaps are gonna take some of us out of our comfort zone.
We've never gone to an altar.
We've never responded to an altar call.
We've never come forward for prayer.
But Lord, tonight we understand the importance of prayer.
Lord, you've offered us an invitation.
Lord, you've given us an opportunity to respond to you.
What would make yourself real in this place?
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.